README.md, before:

# Goodname

Goodname is a tool to assist you with cool naming of your methods and software.
Given a brief description of your method or software,
this tool enumerates name candidates forming subsequences of the description (i.e., *abbreviation*).

For example, given description "Character-wise Double-array Dictionary" of your software,
this tool will suggest some name candidates such as "crawdad" and "cheddar" that are contained in a word dictionary.

## Web App

[Web App](https://kampersanda.github.io/goodname/) is the easiest way to try this tool.

## CLI tool

`goodname-cli` provides a CLI tool of Goodname.
The arguments are
- `-w`: Input word list (must be sorted, be unique, and include no upper-case letters), and
- `-k`: Top-k to print (default=30).

Input a description of your method or software with the stdio, as follows.

```
$ cargo run --release -p goodname-cli -- -w wordlist/words.txt -k 5
Enter your text:
Character wise Double array Dictionary
Matched 10 candidates
1: crawdad, ChaRActer Wise Double Array Dictionary (score=2656)
2: chided, CHaracter wIse DoublE array Dictionary (score=2064)
3: cheddar, CHaracter wisE Double array DictionARy (score=1862)
4: carded, ChARacter wise DoublE array Dictionary (score=1744)
5: creeded, ChaRactEr wisE DoublE array Dictionary (score=1684)
```

Set upper-case letters in the input description so that an output candidate always contains the subsequence consisting of those letters.
In the above example, subsequence ('C', 'D', 'D') is always contained in the candidates.

If you obtain too many or too few candidates, adjust the lettercase setting, as follows.

```
$ cargo run --release -p goodname-cli -- -w wordlist/words.txt -k 5
Enter your text:
Character wise double array dictionary
Matched 1047 candidates
1: crawdad, ChaRActer Wise Double Array Dictionary (score=2656)
2: chresard, CHaRactEr wiSe double ARray Dictionary (score=2244)
3: chawdron, CHAracter Wise Double aRray dictiONary (score=2200)
4: chadar, CHAracter wise Double ARray dictionary (score=2176)
5: chawia, CHAracter WIse double Array dictionary (score=2176)
```

The candidates are printed in score order.
The scores are assigned based on the following ideas:

- The more forward letters of each word in a description, the higher the score.
- The more letters matched, the higher the score.

Here, "word in a description" indicates space-separated ones.
If you replace space letters into other ones (e.g., hyphens), resulting scores will be changed, as follows.

```
$ cargo run --release -p goodname-cli -- -w wordlist/words.txt -k 5
Enter your text:
Character-wise double-array dictionary
Matched 1047 candidates
1: chided, CHaracter-wIse DoublE-array Dictionary (score=28932)
2: cheddar, CHaractEr-wise Double-array DictionARy (score=28832)
3: charadrii, CHARActer-wise Double-aRray dIctIonary (score=28704)
4: chudic, CHaracter-wise doUble-array DICtionary (score=28672)
5: carded, ChARacter-wise DoublE-array Dictionary (score=27904)
```

## Complexity

Enumerating all possible subsequences takes $O(2^n)$ time for an input text of length $n$.
To perform this enumeration in practical time, we generate subsequences on a trie and early prune those that are not candidates.
Furthermore, if the number of candidates exceeds 10 000, the process will be forced to terminate.


## TODO

 - Devise more reasonable scoring.
 - Prepare richer word dictionaries.

## Credits

`wordlist/words.txt` is a list of English words provided by [dwyl/english-words](https://github.com/dwyl/english-words).

Commit message:

Add demo example and scoring (#9)
* add

* add link

* add loop

* add score

* fix

* fix

README.md, after:

# Goodname

Goodname is a tool to assist you with cool naming of your methods and software.
Given a brief description of your method or software,
this tool enumerates name candidates forming subsequences of the description (i.e., *abbreviation*).

For example, given description "Character-wise Double-array Dictionary" of your software,
this tool will suggest some name candidates such as "crawdad" and "cheddar" that are contained in a word dictionary.

## Web App

[Web App](https://kampersanda.github.io/goodname/) is the easiest way to try this tool.

![](./movies/demo.gif)

## CLI tool

`goodname-cli` provides a CLI tool of Goodname.
The arguments are
- `-w`: Input word list (must be sorted, be unique, and include no upper-case letters), and
- `-k`: Top-k to print (default=30).

Input a description of your method or software with the stdio, as follows.

```
$ cargo run --release -p goodname-cli -- -w wordlist/words.txt -k 5
Enter your text:
Character wise Double array Dictionary
Matched 10 candidates
1: crawdad, ChaRActer Wise Double Array Dictionary (score=2656)
2: chided, CHaracter wIse DoublE array Dictionary (score=2064)
3: cheddar, CHaracter wisE Double array DictionARy (score=1862)
4: carded, ChARacter wise DoublE array Dictionary (score=1744)
5: creeded, ChaRactEr wisE DoublE array Dictionary (score=1684)
```

Set upper-case letters in the input description so that an output candidate always contains the subsequence consisting of those letters.
In the above example, subsequence ('C', 'D', 'D') is always contained in the candidates.

If you obtain too many or too few candidates, adjust the lettercase setting, as follows.

```
$ cargo run --release -p goodname-cli -- -w wordlist/words.txt -k 5
Enter your text:
Character wise double array dictionary
Matched 1047 candidates
1: crawdad, ChaRActer Wise Double Array Dictionary (score=2656)
2: chresard, CHaRactEr wiSe double ARray Dictionary (score=2244)
3: chawdron, CHAracter Wise Double aRray dictiONary (score=2200)
4: chadar, CHAracter wise Double ARray dictionary (score=2176)
5: chawia, CHAracter WIse double Array dictionary (score=2176)
```

The candidates are printed in score order.
The scores are assigned based on the following ideas:

- The more forward letters of each word in a description, the higher the score.
- The more letters matched, the higher the score.

Here, "word in a description" indicates space-separated ones.
If you replace space letters into other ones (e.g., hyphens), resulting scores will be changed, as follows.

```
$ cargo run --release -p goodname-cli -- -w wordlist/words.txt -k 5
Enter your text:
Character-wise double-array dictionary
Matched 1047 candidates
1: chided, CHaracter-wIse DoublE-array Dictionary (score=28932)
2: cheddar, CHaractEr-wise Double-array DictionARy (score=28832)
3: charadrii, CHARActer-wise Double-aRray dIctIonary (score=28704)
4: chudic, CHaracter-wise doUble-array DICtionary (score=28672)
5: carded, ChARacter-wise DoublE-array Dictionary (score=27904)
```

## Scoring

Given a text $T$ and a set of positions $\{ i_1, i_2, \dots, i_m \}$ of $T$ such that $T[i_j]$ is not a space,
we define the score of the subsequence $T[i_1] T[i_2] \dots T[i_m]$ as

$$ \sum_{j \in [1,m]} 2^{\ell_{\max} - d(i_j)}, $$

where $\ell_{\max}$ is the maximum length of a word obtained by separating $T$ with a space, and
$d(i)$ is the distance from $T[i]$ to its preceding space (assuming $T[-1]$ is a space).

## Complexity

Enumerating all possible subsequences takes $O(2^n)$ time for an input text of length $n$.
To perform this enumeration in practical time, we generate subsequences on a trie and early prune those that are not candidates.
Furthermore, if the number of candidates exceeds 10k, the process will be forced to terminate.


## TODO

 - Devise more reasonable scoring.
 - Prepare richer word dictionaries.

## Credits

`wordlist/words.txt` is a list of English words provided by [dwyl/english-words](https://github.com/dwyl/english-words).
